# Project Origin / Energinet Open Incubator Working Group Work Session 02.03.2023

## Roles
- [Scheduler]: Laura / @lauranolling 
- [Facilitator]: Laura / @lauranolling
- [Scribe]: Thomas / @wisbech 

## Agenda
- [x] Ensure that any new attendees have a meaningful way to get involved.
- [x] Fill in a summary of items on the project boards:
- [x] Review status of in-flight work from the [Project-Origin backlog](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/6/views/1).
  - 8 cards in “Backlog” 
  - 2 cards in “In Progress” 
  - 3 cards in “Waiting/Blocked”
- [x] Review status of in-flight work from the [Collaboration Platform Backlog](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/2/views/1).
  - 5 cards in “Backlog” 
  - 2 cards in “In Progress” 
  - 1 cards in “Waiting/Blocked” 
- [x] Review status of in-flight work from the [Energinet Open Incubator Board](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11/views/2).
  - 15 cards in “Backlog” 
  - 4 cards in “In Progress” 
  - 1 cards in “Waiting/Blocked”
- [x] Empty the “Done” column on the project boards.
- [x] Moving the weekly: @lenucksi would be happy if we could move this to 1100 from 1000 on Thursdays (or another day) and he has a regular one there.
- [x] Review status of [assignments from last meeting](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-minutes/project-origin-working-session-02-02-2023.md). (List below)
- [x] Fill in assignments from the last meeting
  - Laura / @lauranolling:
    - Set up Github pages
        - Landing page to navigate around structures and templates
        - Unhide the guides
    - ~Scoping of Open Incubator first draft (shared assignment) transfer to note #165~
    - ~[#162](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/162) make @wisbech trusted committer and make sure that he involves our partners in the decision making process and the implementation teams as well. @lauranolling is trusted commiter on the project-origin collaboration repo.~
  - Anders / @andersfausboll:
    - Put the current hypothesis of his conversations with @andre and @lenucksi on the separation & future of the efforts to the Miro.  
    - (Participate asynchronously using the working session notes post and the agenda pre the working session.)
    - Add diagram to [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67) and add any discussion highlights or other considerations if relevant - Anders will comment and close this issue
    - ~Scoping of Open Incubator first draft (shared assignment)~
  - Thomas / @wisbech 
    - First draft on "Tooling Guide", starting with suggested tool draw.io  postponed 
    - Add comment on "rev up Open Incubator Github" (can't link because draft issue) on why the org wasn't made today - graduate this to an issue
    - Add the library as a link to the FOSS guide [FOSS guide part 1](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=19492319)
    - Storytelling - the how
    - ~ Paperwriting with @tpryds get it ongoing  ~
    - Add the conclusions from the Mjølner meetup with @guidmaster to #83 
    - Make some suggestions to the [tooling guide](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/tree/main/guides) and make it more visible
    - ~Get @MortenHouborg to buy a git license for digitization~
  - Johannes / @lenucksi
    - Look at the scribe links and make github work 
    - ~Help with scoping of Open Incubator one-pager (shared assignment)~
- [x] Sign up for next week’s meeting roles.

# Notes

## Attendees:
- @lauranolling, @wisbech, @andersfausboll 

## Key Points:

**Project Origin Backlog**
- In Progress:
    - Division Project-Origin and Open Incubator [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67): We agreed that we now are all aligned on the separation. For completeness @andersfausboll will add a final comment summarizing the separation (See the [Assignments](#assignments) section below)
    - Licensing [#72](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/72) is being adressed and is in progress by @lauranolling 
- Waiting/Blocked:
    - Registry PR [#52](https://github.com/project-origin/registry/pull/52) overview of Project-Origin. Waiting for now while @wisbech and others finish the paper. @mariaepelch might take a look at it and provide feedback
    - Success criteria [#71](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/71) waiting for now. In the workshop we all agreed to move forward with these communication parts, but first @MortenHouborg, @wisbech and @lauranolling will talk about specific next steps. 
    - Shared narrative [#68](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/68). In this context we are working on the above mentioned PR, and will address specific next steps here as well as communication aspect. 
    
**Collaboration Platform Backlog** 
- In Progress:
    - Create beginners guides [#109](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/109). Still in progress, partly in Contribution Guidelines PR [#175](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/pull/175). 
    - Set up Contribution guidelines [#79](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/79). Almost done, needs some link fixes and small additions.
- Waiting/Blocked:
    - Landing page [#129](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/129). Still waiting for license to activate. 

**Energinet Open Incubator Backlog**
- In Progress:
    - Division Project-Origin and Open Incubator [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67). Addressed in Project-Origin Backlog.
    - Scoping Open Incubator and needs addressed [#165](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/165). We agreed that @wisbech will review first draft (See [Assignments](#assignments)).
    
- Waiting/Blocked:
    - Work session notes 09-02-2023 [#167](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/pull/167). We adressed the unresolved comments at the meeting. Anders got a name for Microsoft, Rasmus Knabel, and referred to @MortenHouborg for a PMO contact. Hence, merged and moved to "Done".
    

**Additional notes**
- We agreed to move the weekly to 11:00 as suggested by @lenucksi (see [Assignments](#assignments). @lauranolling will do that.
- We have an agreement on a workshop between Team Atlas and project-origin implementer group. Awesome.
- We discussed that the communications part is an important part of Project-Origin, and that work on this aspect should move forward. 
    - @wisbech mentioned the [Dataspace report setup](https://rapport.dataspaces.dk/intro) as a nicely styled example, and suggested it could be used for inspiration in the Project-Origin setup, potentially drawing in Jacob Bøtter (who set up the report) in the process at some point. 
    - Additionally, @andersfausboll suggested looking into a report he made for Digitaliseringsstyrelsen on [sharing data and documents](https://arkitektur.digst.dk/node/1097) for inspiration. 
    -  We talked a bit about the [press release by Concordium](https://via.ritzau.dk/pressemeddelelse/concordium-blockchain-bidrager-til-energinets-nye-gronne-energicertifikat-platform?publisherId=13561402&releaseId=13670905) on Project-Origin. 
    -  @wisbech notes that we can use LF as a platform for communication as well, linking to a [research sharing page](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/research), with a neat setup. @wisbech notes that this should be utilized, especially given the fact that Energinet are paying members.  
- We talked briefly about the workshop yesterday, 01-03-2023. @lauranolling will put up main points based on her and @andersfausboll notes (See [Assignments](#assignments)). 
## Assignments
- @lauranolling 
- Landing page to navigate around structures and templates
    - Set up Github pages
        - Landing page to navigate around structures and templates
        - Unhide the guides
    - Put up main points summary for the workshop 01-03-2023 using @lauranolling and @andersfausboll notes. 
    - Move the weekly to 11:00-12:00 
    - Find out next steps for Energinet on communication side (shared assignment)
    - Licensing create suggestions document
- @andersfausboll 
  - Contact Energinet PMO and potentially Microsoft Rasmus Knabel [#177](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/177)
  - Add a final comment summarizing the separation between Project-Origin and Energinet Open-Incubator in [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67)
  - Find out next steps for Energinet on communication side (shared assignment)
  - Put the current hypothesis of his conversations with @andre and @lenucksi on the separation & future of the efforts to the Miro. 
    - Add diagram to [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67) and add any discussion highlights or other considerations if relevant - Anders will comment and close this issue
- @wisbech 
  - Review Open Incubator [first draft in Miro](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVP3As-l8=/?moveToWidget=3458764545498972526&cot=14)
  - Find out next steps for Energinet on communication side (shared assignment)
  - First draft on "Tooling Guide", starting with suggested tool draw.io  postponed 
    - Add comment on "rev up Open Incubator Github" (can't link because draft issue) on why the org wasn't made today - graduate this to an issue
    - Add the library as a link to the FOSS guide [FOSS guide part 1](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=19492319)
    - Storytelling - the how in overview [PR #52](https://github.com/project-origin/registry/pull/52)
    - Add the conclusions from the Mjølner meetup with @guidmaster to #83 
    - Make some suggestions to the [tooling guides](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/tree/main/docs/github_guides) and make them more visible
- @lenucksi 
  - Look at the scribe links and make github work 
  

## Next Meeting’s Roles

- [Scheduler]:  @lauranolling 
- [Facilitator]:  @wisbech 
- [Scribe]: @lauranolling 


[Project board Project-Origin]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/6/views/2
[Project board Collaboration Platform]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/2/views/1
[Project board Energinet Open Incubator]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11

[Scheduler]: https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#scheduler
[Facilitator]: https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#facilitator
[Scribe]: https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#scribe
