# Project Origin / Energinet Open Incubator Working Group Work Session 09.02.2023

## Roles
- [Scheduler]: Laura / @lauranolling 
- [Facilitator]: Johannes / @lenucksi 
- [Scribe]: Thomas / @wisbech 

## Agenda
- [ ] Ensure that any new attendees have a meaningful way to get involved.
- [ ] Fill in a summary of items on the project boards:
- [ ] Review status of in-flight work from the [Project-Origin backlog](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/6/views/1).
  - 3 cards are “Waiting/Blocked”
  - 3 card in “In Progress” 
  - 12 cards are in “Backlog” 
- [ ] Review status of in-flight work from the [Collaboration Platform Backlog](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/2/views/1).
  - 1 card is “Waiting/Blocked” 
  - 2 card is “In Progress” 
  - 8 cards are in “Backlog” 
- [ ] Review status of in-flight work from the [Energinet Open Incubator Board](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11/views/2).
  - 3 cards are “Waiting/Blocked”
  - 3 cards are “In Progress” 
  - 12 cards are in “Backlog"
- [ ] Empty the “Done” column on the project boards.
- [ ] Moving the weekly: @lenucksi would be happy if we could move this to 1100 from 1000 on Thursdays (or another day) and he has a regular one there.
- [ ] Review status of [assignments from last meeting](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-minutes/project-origin-working-session-02-02-2023.md). (List below)
- [ ] Fill in assignments from the last meeting
  - Laura / @lauranolling:
    - Landing page to navigate around structures and templates
    - Scoping of Open Incubator first draft (shared assignment) transfer to note #165 
  - Anders / @andersfausboll:
    - Put the current hypothesis of his conversations with @andre and @lenucksi on the separation & future of the efforts to the Miro.  
    - (Participate asynchronously using the working session notes post and the agenda pre the working session.)
    - Add diagram to [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67) and add any discussion highlights or other considerations if relevant 
    - Scoping of Open Incubator first draft (shared assignment)
  - Thomas / @wisbech 
    - First draft on "Tooling Guide", starting with suggested tool draw.io  postponed 
    - Move "tooling" issue to Open Incubator Project Board - note make it visible it is already there
    - Add comment on "rev up Open Incubator Github" (can't link because draft issue) on why the org wasn't made today - graduate this to an issue
    - Add the library as a link to the FOSS guide [FOSS guide part 1](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=19492319)
    - We have the content let us make it visible - think newspapers and clickbait
- [ ] Sign up for next week’s meeting roles.

# Notes

## Attendees:
- @lenucksi 
- @lauranolling 
- @wisbech 

## Key Points:
- When discussing [#68](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/68), @wisbech mentions that he had a meeting Tuesday with @guidmaster. 
    - They agreed that the important step from here is "working code over a bunch of code" 
    - Different understanding in Team Atlas and Project-Origin on what the registry does. We have a communication task here. Storytelling (how and why) is the first step here. @wisbech and @lauranolling are working on this (See Assignments) 
- Related to [#168](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/pull/168), where a Decision-making policy is created, @wisbech suggests looking into [Pulumi](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/continuous-delivery/github-actions/) to assist.
- Treating [#162](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/162) (FOSS roles implicit/explicit) we discuss whether making roles explicit makes sense for us. @lauranolling argues that doing so will help enforce decision-making policy and contribution guidelines in the community. The group agrees to point out trusted committers for each repo. 
    - When discussing who to act as trusted committers, @wisbech argues that we don't want to put the maintenance role onto partners. @lauranolling reflects whether this will send a wrong signal of an "unequal" partnership. @lenucksi suggests pointing out @wisbech as trusted committer in the registry repo, who will then be responsible for advocating the interests of all partners in Project-Origin. The group agrees (see Assignments)
    - @wisbech mentions that he had a visit to Microsoft, where they discussed some of the underlying issues behind starting the Open Incubator effort. Microsoft describes having the same problems, and helping big companies experiencing the same issue - In the meeting Microsoft suggests visiting Energinet for an uncommiting free-of-charge meeting and talk about this. (comment from @lauranolling: Given that we will set up Azure DevOps teams for this effort, this may make sense). The group however doesn't decide on anything here. 

## Assignments
- @wisbech 
        - Storytelling of the why and how,@lauranolling  has tackled the why - we will collaborate on that
        - The how - what is needed to run the registry
        - Paperwriting with @tpryds get it ongoing 
        - Add the conclusions from the Mjølner meetup with @guidmaster to #83 
        - Make some suggestion to the [tooling guide](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/tree/main/guides) and make it more visible
        - Get @MortenHouborg to buy a git license for digitization
- @lauranolling
        - [#162](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/162) make @wisbech trusted committer and make sure that he involves our partners in the decision making process and the implementation teams as well
        - reach out to our new PMO in regard to Open Incubator and the innerSource approach here
        - unhide the tooling guide [https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/tree/main/guides](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/tree/main/guides)
- @lenucksi 
         ~- look at the scribe links and make github work~
           - Looks like I botched the [reference style links](https://gist.github.com/emedinaa/28ed71b450243aba48accd634679f805). Links at the bottom are the correct ones, links at the top not so much for that concept. Fixed in commit suggestions, also fixed the template, see here: #173 
        
        

## Next Meeting’s Roles

- [Scheduler](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#scheduler):  Laura / @lauranolling 
- [Facilitator](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#facilitator): Johannes / @lenucksi 
- [Scribe](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#scribe): Thomas / @wisbech 

<!-- something tells me we need to fix the anchorlink style use here... -->
[project board Project-Origin]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/6/views/2

[project board collaboration platform]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/2/views/1
[project board Energinet Open Incubator]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11

[Scheduler]: https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/docs/guidelines/roles.md#scheduler
[Facilitator]: hhttps://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/docs/guidelines/roles.md#facilitator
[Scribe]: https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/docs/guidelines/roles.md#scribe
