# Project Origin / Energinet Open Incubator Working Group Work Session 19, 01, 2023

## Roles
- Scheduler: Laura / @lauranolling
- Facilitator: Laura / @lauranolling
- Scribe: Johannes / @lenucksi

## Agenda

- [x] Review status of in-flight work from the [Project-Origin backlog](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/6/views/1).
  - 3 cards are “Waiting/Blocked” here 
  - 4 cards are “In Progress” 
  - 12 cards are in “Backlog” 
- [x] Review status of in-flight work from the [Collaboration Platform Backlog](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/2/views/1).
  - 3 cards are “Waiting/Blocked”
  - 3 cards are “In Progress”
  - 9 cards are in “Backlog” 
- [x] Review status of in-flight work from the [Energinet Open Incubator Board](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11/views/2).
  - 1 card in “Waiting/Blocked”
  - 3 cards in “In Progress” 
  - 12 cards are in “Backlog”
- [x] Fill in a summary of items on the project board
- [x] Empty the “Done” column on the project board.
- [x] Review status of [assignments from last meeting](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVP3As-l8=/?moveToWidget=3458764542722156846&cot=14). (See below for summary)
- [x] Fill in assignments from the last meeting (copy pasting from [Miro](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVP3As-l8=/?moveToWidget=3458764542722156846&cot=14) this time, see notes in comments there too, also GitHub issues in comments there.)
  - Laura
    - Contacting Datahub 3.0  (coordination/knowledge sharing)
      - moved to next week
    - ~Plan work session Backstage~
      - Done
    - Landing page to navigate around structures and templates
      - Postponed to address after the Backstage session
  - Thomas
    - ~Github Action: Issue from TODO~
      - Done & got some good feedback that it works from martin, thomas etc. Yay!
  - Johannes 
    - ~ICSF approach notes~
      - Done
  - Anders
    - Separation of projects Project-Origin, Open Incubator
      - Work sessions with @lenucksi and @AndreAlnor have been had.
      - Some more definition arose, will be put into Miro, see assignment below 

- [x] Ensure that any new attendees have a meaningful way to get involved.
- [x] Sign up for next week’s meeting roles.

- **next working session on 2nd of February 2023**, we skip one week due to busy Energinet schedule.
  - @lenucksi would be happy if we could move this to 1100 from 1000 on Thursdays (or another day) and he has a regular one there.

# Notes

## Attendees:
- Laura (@lauranolling), Thomas (@wisbech), Anders (@AndersFausboll), Johannes (@lenucksi)

## Key Points:
- Scribe says: Feel free to take notes and add them to the PR or get them to @lenucksi at the end so they can be integrated into the notes.
- [Mozilla Doc](https://opentechstrategies.com/archetypes-files/open-source-archetypes-v2-quick-ref.pdf) mailed around - @wisbech mentioned difference and pace in of public and private projects. @lenucksi mentioned the archetypes with Private might be interested "rocket ship to mars" 

- Project Origin board:
  - #64 updates
  - #68 Shared narrative updates: Laura meeting with Morten, noone heared any updates, we're mentioned Maria and Morten -> went to blocked now
  - #127 we know have a sort-of idea, closing this and moving to doing in a new issue
  - #69 roles definition - update
  - #72 update from laura.
  - #71 success criteria -> workshop, mid february?
 
- Collab board:
  - #109 in progress
  - #117 still needs a PR, also add the diff
  - #108 Done! We're in that meeting now.
  - #5 Done, let's close that one.
  - #7 updates in the ticket, goes to blocked due to funky stuff. 
 
- Energinet Open incubator board:
  - #132 Got closed, we actually have a mechanism to make progress and lead our way now
  - #137 Scopeing of the open incubator effort needed, probably something for @lenucksi and @andersfausboll -> done as far as this issue goes, see assignments for future
  - #131 @AndreAlnor agrees. Name found. Yay. Energinet Open Incubator is a thing now.
    - See also notes from @andersfausboll conversations with @AndreAlnor on separation and his wishes (OSPO, Incubator, InnerSource ways of working, ...)
 
 - @lauranolling moves on to new department in may as part of her graduate tour of duty, andré to get someone for the open source effort full time to follow up on what @lauranolling started. 
 
## Assignments
- Johannes / @lenucksi:
  - To split #69 out into two issues and add a comment on the roles 1+2 / corporate vs. foss.. Close original issue once that's done.
  - fix template "meaningful way to engage" thing -> goes to bottom, better flow
- Laura / @lauranolling:
  - #117 add note to this on difference between the boards
  - Split #137 into project-origin/product and energinet-open-incubator issues
  - Some small teams session to be organized with @lauranolling, @andersfausboll, @lenucksi 
- Anders / @andersfausboll:
  - Put the current hypothesis of his conversations with @andre and @lenucksi on the separation & future of the efforts to the Miro.

## Next Meeting’s Roles

- [Scheduler](Scheduler): Laura 
- [Facilitator](Facilitator): Johannes 
- [Scribe](Scribe): Laura

<!-- something tells me we need to fix the anchorlink style use here... -->
[project board Project-Origin]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/6/views/2

[project board collaboration platform]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/2/views/1
[project board Energinet Open Incubator]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11

[Scheduler]:meeting-docs/roles.md#scheduler
[Facilitator]:meeting-docs/roles.md#facilitator
[Scribe]:meeting-docs/roles.md#scribe
