# Project Origin / Energinet Open Incubator Working Group Work Session 02.02.2023

## Roles
- Scheduler: Laura / @lauranolling
- Facilitator: Johannes / @lenucksi
- Scribe: Laura / @lauranolling

## Agenda

- [x] Review status of in-flight work from the [Project-Origin backlog](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/6/views/1).
  - 1 cards are ‚ÄúWaiting/Blocked‚Äù here 
  - 2 cards are ‚ÄúIn Progress‚Äù 
  - 11 cards are in ‚ÄúBacklog‚Äù 
- [x] Review status of in-flight work from the [Collaboration Platform Backlog](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/2/views/1).
  - 1 cards are ‚ÄúWaiting/Blocked‚Äù
  - 3 cards are ‚ÄúIn Progress‚Äù
  - 8 cards are in ‚ÄúBacklog‚Äù 
- [x] Review status of in-flight work from the [Energinet Open Incubator Board](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11/views/2).
  - 0 card in ‚ÄúWaiting/Blocked‚Äù
  - 1 cards in ‚ÄúIn Progress‚Äù 
  - 12 cards are in ‚ÄúBacklog‚Äù
- [x] Fill in a summary of items on the project board
- [x] Empty the ‚ÄúDone‚Äù column on the project board.
- [x] Review status of [assignments from last meeting](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-minutes/project-origin-working-session-19-01-2023.md). (See below for summary)
- [x] Fill in assignments from the last meeting
  - Laura / @lauranolling:
    - ~#117 add note to this on difference between the boards~
    - ~Split #137 into project-origin/product and energinet-open-incubator issues~
    - Some small teams session to be organized with @lauranolling, @andersfausboll, @lenucksi 
    - ~Contacting Datahub 3.0  (coordination/knowledge sharing)~
    - Landing page to navigate around structures and templates
  - Anders / @andersfausboll:
    - Put the current hypothesis of his conversations with @andre and @lenucksi on the separation & future of the efforts to the Miro.
    
- ~[ ] Ensure that any new attendees have a meaningful way to get involved.~
- [x] Sign up for next week‚Äôs meeting roles.

- [ ] @lenucksi would be happy if we could move this to 1100 from 1000 on Thursdays (or another day) and he has a regular one there.

# Notes

## Attendees:
- Thomas (@wisbech), Johannes (@lenucksi), Anders (@andersfausb√∏ll), Laura (@lauranolling) 

## Key Points:
### Going through Project Boards

**Project-Origin Backlog**

- _In Progress_: 
    - [#64](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/64) (establish first work structures): There will be a workshop Feb. 20th following up on this moving forward. @andersfausboll argues that first work structures have been reached, @lauranolling mentions the checklist in comments have been completed. The group agrees to close this, after @wisbech (done) and @lauranolling added comments (see [Assignments](#assignments)) 
    - [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67) (Separating Project-Origin and Open incubator): @andersfausboll and @lauranolling worked through this, and @andersfausboll made a helpful diagram. @andersfausboll decides to take progress history into consideration before adding his perspectives, and the group agrees that commenting/adding diagram, discussion highlights and any other considerations will be valuable (see [Assignments](#assignments)). 
        - A discussion arises on providing useful tooling to elevate quality of work, as @wisbech suggests using draw.io to create the diagram in an editable way before adding it. @lenucksi suggests working on a draft for a "tooling guide", which @wisbech agrees to start working on (see [Assignments](#assignments))
    - [#72](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/72) (Go through licensing): @lauranolling mentions that this issue is not in progress. The group agrees to move it to Waiting/Blocked). 
    
- _No Status_:
    - [#161](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/161), [#162](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/162), [#163](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/163) - @lenucksi agrees to move these to one of the "status" columns, and add link to where they arose from (see [Assignments](#assignments))
    
- _Backlog:_
    - The group decides to skip this column, as there are plenty to do with progress issues for now   


**Collaboration Platform Backlog**

 - _In Progress:_ 
     - [#7](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/7) (availability of commercial GH license): Moved to waiting/blocked as no progress
     - [#109](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/109) (beginners guides): @lauranolling mentions that this is still in progress
     - [#117](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/117) (board usage):  A comment on board distinction has been added by @lauranolling , and @lenucksi added it to the Readme, closing üéâ 


**Open Incubator Backlog**

- _In Progress:_
    - [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67) (separating Project-Origin and Open Incubator): Moved from Project-Origin backlog
    - [#163](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/163) (create 02-02 work session): This PR
    - [#165](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/165) (scope Open Incubator and needs adressed): @andersfausboll and @lauranolling will go through this with @AndreAlnor on Monday  (see [Assignments](#assignments)), @lenucksi offers going through this with @andersfausboll and @lauranolling afterwards. @lenucksi points to a [PDF (Mozilla)](https://opentechstrategies.com/archetypes-files/open-source-archetypes-v2-quick-ref.pdf), which he e-mailed and [linked](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVP3As-l8=/?moveToWidget=3458764542848548098&cot=14) in _the_ Miro, and recommends everyone going through it. @andersfausboll mentions reading a [Tennet paper](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVP3As-l8=/?moveToWidget=3458764541909241135&cot=14). (See also the evolution diagram right next to it and the comments to this.) 
    
 - _Backlog:_
     - [#145](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/145) and [#8](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/8) is moved here from the Project-Origin Backlog
         - @wisbech mentions also moving the tooling issue here  (see [Assignments](#assignments)). @andersfausboll  mentions considering Innersource methods of "we chose A and didn't choose B and C because‚Ä¶" to make this more transparent . @lenucksi points out here that passive documentation, i.e. the written explicit way, allows to generate/have exactly this "A not B and C" reasoning for future participants/onlookers without having to write explicit documents. It's not bad having them as well, especially if they link into the relevant passive documentation bits.
         
 - _No status:_
     - Draft issue on "rev up Open Incubator Github Org": the group agrees to make further decisions here after the meeting with @andersfausboll, @AndreAlnor and @lauranolling. @lenucksi refers to issue [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67) for discussion and useful links on this topic. 
        - A discussion arises here, as @wisbech points out that the role of such Github Org in relation to the Energinet-DataHub org is not clear. Additionally, not clear who should be the owner of this, besides definitely an energinet e-mail. @wisbech will add comment on this (see [Assignments](#assignments)).  
        - Another discussion arises regarding open source products and licensing, as the group stumbles upon a public repo owned by an "energinet" user, but with no license. @lenucksi compares the no-license case with accessible documents by Microsoft - available, but no right to modify or use, and recommends considering no-license code proprietary (and to refer to counsel for detailed evaluation). @andersfausboll mentions the conflict of having different licenses in files and and the root of a repository (general topic: contradicting license findings), and @lenucksi suggests using a lawyer in such case. 
        

### Other important points
- @lenucksi suggests striking out any adressed/done assignments for this weekly session, to avoid transferring assignments that don't need to be. 
- @andersfausboll  suggests moving the meeting next week to Wednesday, but not everyone is able to. @lenucksi suggests moving the meeting next week to 11.00, but no agreement is reached here. 
- @lenucksi suggests to test our notes for usability by asynchronous participants by letting @andersfausboll participate asynchronously using the working session notes post and the agenda pre the working session. This sees agreement. Next working session on the regular time & day next week.
- @lenucksi  suggests looking into the Github for Energinet-DataHub for some [examples](https://github.com/Energinet-DataHub/greenforce-frontend/blob/main/NOTICE.md) how the topic of FOSS attribution could be approached. Not stating that the approach is a correct one, but they clearly have observed some of the common practices around this somewhere and are now applying what they understood - some of which looks like a good start - it might be interesting to discuss their way to it, their investment (are there maybe even any legal insights that informed this setup?) their decisions and lessons learned here and see if other parts of Energinet can profit from it or something has room for improvement.
 @andersfausboll mentioned that he wanted to compressed onboarding guides. Scope was not fully clear to @lenucksi but those can be useful. Especially if links to matching original sources and passive documentation bits are included. How about creating this as a pull request so we can build and enhance them together?
## Assignments
- @lauranolling 
    - ~Add comment to #64 on reason for closing issue, adress points in checklist and close~
        - Stated that missing points in checklists will be addressed after the partner meeting end of Feb.
    - Scoping of Open Incubator first draft (shared assignment)
- @andersfausboll 
    - Add diagram to [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67) and add any discussion highlights or other considerations if relevant 
   - Scoping of Open Incubator first draft (shared assignment)
- @wisbech 
    - First draft on "Tooling Guide", starting with suggested tool draw.io  
    - Move "tooling" issue to Open Incubator Project Board
    - Add comment on "rev up Open Incubator Github" (can't link because draft issue) on why the org wasn't made today
- @lenucksi 
    - ~Move [#161](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/161), [#162](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/162), [#163](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/163) from "No Status" column and add link to where they arose from~
      - Done. This has arisen from https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/69#issuecomment-1396829866, see also the links in [#161](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/161), [#162](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/162). I've moved them from `no status` to `backlog` in the Project-Origin project.  #163 is this PR, but I've moved it to `in review` too.

## Next Meeting‚Äôs Roles

- [Scheduler](Scheduler): Laura / @lauranolling 
- [Facilitator](Facilitator): Johannes / @lenucksi 
- [Scribe](Scribe): Thomas / @wisbech 

<!-- something tells me we need to fix the anchorlink style use here... -->
[project board Project-Origin]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/6/views/2

[project board collaboration platform]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/2/views/1
[project board Energinet Open Incubator]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11

[Scheduler]:https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#scheduler
[Facilitator]:https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#facilitator
[Scribe]:https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#scribe
