# Project Origin / Energinet Open Incubator Working Group Work Session 09.02.2023

## Roles
- [Scheduler](Scheduler): Laura / @lauranolling 
- [Facilitator](Facilitator): Johannes / @lenucksi 
- [Scribe](Scribe): Thomas / @wisbech 

## Agenda
- [ ] Ensure that any new attendees have a meaningful way to get involved.
- [ ] Fill in a summary of items on the project boards:
- [ ] Review status of in-flight work from the [Project-Origin backlog](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/6/views/1).
  - 3 cards are “Waiting/Blocked”
  - 3 card in “In Progress” 
  - 12 cards are in “Backlog” 
- [ ] Review status of in-flight work from the [Collaboration Platform Backlog](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/2/views/1).
  - 1 card is “Waiting/Blocked” 
  - 2 card is “In Progress” 
  - 8 cards are in “Backlog” 
- [ ] Review status of in-flight work from the [Energinet Open Incubator Board](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11/views/2).
  - 3 cards are “Waiting/Blocked”
  - 3 cards are “In Progress” 
  - 12 cards are in “Backlog"
- [ ] Empty the “Done” column on the project boards.
- [ ] Moving the weekly: @lenucksi would be happy if we could move this to 1100 from 1000 on Thursdays (or another day) and he has a regular one there.
- [ ] Review status of [assignments from last meeting](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-minutes/project-origin-working-session-02-02-2023.md). (List below)
- [ ] Fill in assignments from the last meeting
  - Laura / @lauranolling:
    - Landing page to navigate around structures and templates
    - Scoping of Open Incubator first draft (shared assignment) transfer to note #165 
  - Anders / @andersfausboll:
    - Put the current hypothesis of his conversations with @andre and @lenucksi on the separation & future of the efforts to the Miro.  
    - (Participate asynchronously using the working session notes post and the agenda pre the working session.)
    - Add diagram to [#67](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/issues/67) and add any discussion highlights or other considerations if relevant 
    - Scoping of Open Incubator first draft (shared assignment)
  - Thomas / @wisbech 
    - First draft on "Tooling Guide", starting with suggested tool draw.io  postponed 
    - Move "tooling" issue to Open Incubator Project Board - note make it visible it is already there
    - Add comment on "rev up Open Incubator Github" (can't link because draft issue) on why the org wasn't made today - graduate this to an issue
    - Add the library as a link to the FOSS guide [FOSS guide part 1](https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=19492319)
    - We have the content let us make it visible - think newspapers and clickbait
- [ ] Sign up for next week’s meeting roles.

# Notes

## Attendees:
- @lenucksi 
- @lauranolling 
- @wisbech 

## Key Points:
- 

## Assignments
- @wisbech 
        - Storytelling of the why and how,@lauranolling  has tackled the why - we will collaborate on that
        - The how - what is needed to run the registry
        - Paperwriting with @tpryds get it ongoing 
        - Add the conclusions from the Mjølner meetup with @guidmaster to #83 
        - Make some suggestion to the [tooling guide](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/tree/main/guides) and make it more visible
        - Get @MortenHouborg to buy a git license for digitization
- @lauranolling #162 
        - make @wisbech trusted committer and make sure that he involves our partners in the decision making process and the implementation teams as well
        - reach out to our new PMO in regard to Open Incubator and the innerSource approach here
- @lauranolling 
        - unhide the tooling guide [https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/tree/main/guides](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/tree/main/guides)
- @lenucksi 
         - look at the scribe links and make github work 
        
        
- @username
    - assignment

## Next Meeting’s Roles

- [Scheduler](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#scheduler):  
- [Facilitator](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#facilitator): 
- [Scribe](https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#scribe): 

<!-- something tells me we need to fix the anchorlink style use here... -->
[project board Project-Origin]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/6/views/2

[project board collaboration platform]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/2/views/1
[project board Energinet Open Incubator]: https://github.com/orgs/project-origin/projects/11

[Scheduler]:https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#scheduler
[Facilitator]:https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#facilitator
[Scribe]:https://github.com/project-origin/origin-collaboration/blob/main/meeting-docs/roles.md#scribe
